.TH PT-CORE 1 "January 2026" "pt-core 0.1.0" "Process Triage"
.SH NAME
pt-core \- Process Triage inference and decision engine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pt-core
[GLOBAL OPTIONS] <command> [ARGS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pt-core
scans processes, computes Bayesian posteriors, applies policy and decision theory,
produces plans, and optionally executes actions with safety gates.

No actions are taken unless explicitly requested.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -f , " --format" " <json|jsonl|md|summary|...>"
Output format (default: json).
.TP
.BR --robot
Enable non-interactive automation mode (still gated by policy).
.TP
.BR --shadow
Run full pipeline but never execute actions.
.TP
.BR --dry-run
Compute plan only (no execution even with --robot).
.TP
.BR --timeout " <seconds>"
Abort if operation exceeds time limit.
.TP
.BR --config " <path>"
Override config directory.
.TP
.BR --capabilities " <path>"
Capabilities manifest from the wrapper.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B run
Interactive golden path (scan \-> infer \-> plan \-> TUI approval \-> apply).
.TP
.B scan
Quick scan only (no inference or action).
.TP
.B deep-scan
Deep scan with /proc probes (Linux).
.TP
.B query
Query telemetry and session history.
.TP
.B bundle
Create or inspect diagnostic bundles.
.TP
.B report
Generate HTML reports.
.TP
.B check
Validate configuration and environment.
.TP
.B agent
Agent/robot subcommands (plan, explain, apply, verify).
.TP
.B config
Configuration management.
.TP
.B telemetry
Telemetry management.
.TP
.B signature
Signature management (list/add/remove/test/validate/export).
.TP
.B version
Print version information.
.SH EXIT CODES
The following exit codes are stable:
.TP
.B 0
OK_CLEAN (success, nothing to do)
.TP
.B 1
OK_CANDIDATES (plan produced)
.TP
.B 2
OK_APPLIED (actions executed)
.TP
.B 3
ERR_PARTIAL (some actions failed)
.TP
.B 4
ERR_BLOCKED (safety gate blocked)
.TP
.B 5
ERR_GOAL_UNREACHABLE
.TP
.B 6
ERR_INTERRUPTED (resumable)
.TP
.B 10-16
ERR_ARGS, ERR_CAPABILITY, ERR_PERMISSION, ERR_VERSION, ERR_LOCK, ERR_SESSION, ERR_IDENTITY
.TP
.B 20-22
ERR_INTERNAL, ERR_IO, ERR_TIMEOUT
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/process_triage/
Configuration directory (policy.json, priors.json, signatures.json).
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/process_triage/sessions/
Session artifacts.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pt (1),
.BR pt-config (5),
.BR pt-signatures (5)
